

Discuss core concepts:

IaaS, PaaS, SaaS 
Public, private and hybrid cloud computing
Benefits of cloud services: High availability, scalability, disaster recovery, elasticity, geo-distribution, Agility.

Azure compute services:
Azure Virtual Machines
Provides IaaS. Helpful when running custom software and custom hosting positions.
Azure Container Instances
Used to deploy and manage containers.
Azure App Service
A PaaS that is used to quickly build, deploy and scale web, mobile, and API apps running on any platform.
Azure Functions (or serverless computing)
Functions are used when we are code focused and not platform.
Kubernetes: Combination of Containerized management with API to create a cloud management power house. 
Topics to strengthen:
Defence index model layers:
Perimeter: responsible for filtering large-scale attacks from networks including DDoS
Identity and access layers: Controls access to infrastructure
Network: Limits communication among network layers.
 
Subscription boundaries for Azure subscription
Billing boundaries: creation of subscription based on billing requirement
Access control boundaries: creation of subscription based on departmental requirements and organizational structure
 
Core Azure Identity services:
Authentication based on location: conditional access
Multi factor authentication (MFA) : Password and code sent to the mobile are warranted for authorization
Single Sign-On(SSO): Authenticate once and access multiple systems
 
Azure service life cycle:
	
Azure cost management has tools for monitoring, allocating and optimizing costs
 
TCO: allows one to compare Azure costs to the current setup one has.
 
21viaNet- Azure services in China
 
Azure blueprints: set of roles, policies and templates that help with industry regulations
Policies:  defines roles and restrictions
Initiative: groups of policies
 
Azure firewall: Control traffic going into the network
Azure NSG ( Network Security Group) : Best tool for filtering virtual traffic by IP address, port or protocol.
 
Azure Storage services:
Blob: Videos and binary files
File: Best utilized for file shares
Table: NoSQL data
Queue: Messages sent between applications
Key Vault: SSL and TLS certificates
 
 
Learn about 
Azure HD insight: provides open source analytics for enterprises
Azure Synapse Analytics: Allows for building large scale data warehouse and big data analytics
Azure data bricks: Build AI solutions
Azure data lake analytics:Uses queries to transform data
 
 
Azure resources where cost factors:
Resource types, services, locations, amount of ingress and egress traffic.
Resource group is not a cost factor


Azure monitor:
Advisor
Dev-Test labs

Azure database services:
Database for PostgreSQL
Azure COSMOS DB
Azure SQL database
Azure database for mySQL
